we begin in Gaza where a number of
Palestinians detained by Israeli forces
say they were beaten tortured and humil
humiliated they've now returned to Rafa
and it's the latest in increasing
accusations of gross mistreatment of
prisoners and violation of international
law aler spoke to two men about what
they went
through I was at home when the Army
stormed my house I told them I'm sick
and I can't move they took me out of my
house and put me in an armored vehicle
I thought at the beginning they would
take me to a hospital but instead they
took me to Israel I spent 10 days in
Israel where they hit me insulted me and
humiliated me every day I feel pain
everywhere on my body they forced us to
bend on our knees for hours they kept
asking me about the tunnels and about
their captives held by Hamas I told them
I'm 70 years old and I know nothing
about these matters they hit me a lot
when I couldn't find an answer to their
questions
I swear to God that I didn't have a
single drop of water for days it was the
worst 10 days of my
life when we got an evacuation warning
we left our place and headed towards the
sea the moment we arrived at the
security checkpoint the Israeli soldiers
kidnapped us we weren't even given a
chance to ask any questions we spent the
first 3 days without food or water we
were not allowed to go to the toilets we
were beaten harshly all over the first 3
days
after that they moved us to another
place for some new methods of torture
after a 3day starvation they gave us a
meal that's not even enough for a child
in the prison you're allowed to sleep in
the yard where the weather's very cold
and where you have only a very thin
mattress and very wet blanket the
Israeli soldiers didn't stop beating us
insulting us and swearing at us all the
time in the studio by Al jazer senior
political analyst marn Bashar Marin I
think we need to pause and uh take stock
of what we've just heard from hany there
because obviously this is a conflict in
which we've all seen horror upon horror
but what we've been reporting in the
past 24 hours appears to be allegations
of systematic torture extrajudicial educ
executions about bodies wrapped in
plastic thrown in in Shallow Graves I
mean what does this say about the kind
of War that's been waged by Israel and
Gaza I think we've arrived at the Abu
moment u in Gaza where the actual
physical torture and
humiliation uh physical violence and so
on so forth is finally
exposed so there's Revelations now more
and more of them accumulating after
months of
war the gazans the Palestinians in Gaza
have been subjective to a number or
different types of violence right so for
a long time it was The
Siege and uh over over the past four
months the sieg me started starvation it
meant denial of basic human rights
especially to children and to mothers
and fathers and so on and that's a very
particular silent implicit kind of
violence then there was the bombing the
bombing from the air artillery bombing
from the
sea but that was the kind of bombing
that you do from a distance right it's
very very hurtful very
destructive very bloody but it's from
Far you're a pilot you're you're Manning
an artillery shell or
whatever and then there is a
psychological violence right the
psychological violence the terror the
drones scaring people and what have you
and then there's this violence the
primordial violence the Primitive
violence the physical violence the
torture the Abu type violence that's
been exposed where Israeli soldiers are
physically personally psychologically
invested in torturing Palestinians in
this in the kind of
sadism in the kind of hurtful
humiliating sadism against the
Palestinians as if it goes beyond the
Revenge of a primordial time as if it
goes
beyond defense Beyond offense beyond
beyond racism it goes to something very
very basic instinctive I would say
animalistic approach to another human
being it has been described by some as
as a conflict of annihilation a war of
annihilation I wonder where this
evidence that we've seen accumulated
over the past 24 48 Hours where that
sits in the context of what has been
decided at the international court of
justice just uh just under a week ago
today you know um I think the
Israelis apparently have Lost in
Translation right as if they have not
understood and they're American backers
as if they have not understood OD what
came out from the international court of
justice I mean my own interpretation I
would say Israel has been
indicted right there's no final verdict
but they accepted the case Israel is
basically officially indicted for
genocide and you would think that they
came out innocent because there is no
ceasefire involved as if all the charges
that were made and then all the the
provincial measures the inter orders the
icg ordered Israel in the interim to do
a number of things because it's
suspected of genocide but when you look
at for example what they're doing in the
hospitals or around the hospitals or in
the hospitals like in
Janine where did they disguise as
doctors where they kill people in
hospitals where they turn hospitals into
battlefields or into targets there's
something
about you know turning doctors into
enemies I mean I I I think for the
Palestinians probably the Saints the
present day Saints are the doctors and
the nurses and the medical staff because
they're the only ones out there at the
Forefront trying
to you know make the hurt go away or try
try to listen the hurt of of
Palestinians and as if that is angering
the Israelis the most and hence there's
the kind of a criminal acts you know a
violation of all legality and morality
by using the
hospitals as battlefields or by bombing
the hospitals as if they are targets
they are of course meant to be places of
healing marn stay with us because I also
want to reflect upon some diplomatic
movement that we've uh seen uh in recent
days as well because katar's prime
minister told National Public Radio in
the US that the framework for a
ceasefire with Israel is now being
presented to Hamas he says indirect
negotiations will take place in the
coming
days we cannot predict that is it going
to have a breakthrough and will move
forward very fast or how fast it will go
it will all depends on both parties our
aim is to finish this as soon as
possible and to bring the hostages back
but to put a closure for the war as well
okay well I'm uh joined of course still
by Maran Bashar is here in the studio
with me so the message I think the
takeaway message there was there is a
degree of movement we cannot promise
anything right now but tentatively
discussions are happening these indirect
talks are are underway is Haner um the
obviously prominent Hamas figure is in
Egypt being briefed what does all of
this mean if we try and connect the dots
well there's two ways to look at it I
mean just to make it really simple one
way is that this is all an attempt at
creating the impression that something
is happening and that America and nanah
government the Biden Administration and
and the Egyptians and everyone else
trying to do their best in order to
bring about an end to this and and to
get the captives out and and and so on
so forth because that buys Israel time I
mean Israel now is benefiting from this
whole
movement to carry out its genocide that
we were just talking about the torture
right and then there is the other one
that says look everyone is fed up uh
including the Israelis the public by the
war and the Palestinians certainly want
to have an end to this Suffering The
Americans are an election year they
would like to wind it down so this
interpretation says there is a good
reason why all parties might be
interested in at least some kind of a
deal but the gap between Hamas and
Israel is huge right the only way to
bridge the gap is for the Americans to
get in with the with the support or with
the help of Qatar and Egypt and others
and and give guarantees to both parties
that if you sign on WE the Americans
will guarantee you a number of things
if the parties buy into the guarantees
we could have a deal my only fear uh n
my only fear is that they could reach a
deal but it could break in no
time Maran many thanks for your analysis
as always m b
then